# Xilinx_Spartan_3_series_Digital_Clock
Design of a digital clock with an alarm clock function on a Xilinx Spartan-3 series FPGA chip.

Four JK flip-flops, triggered by a rising edge, were used to implement the frequency divider.

The 24h watch system is described by a code that simulates a watch with an alarm clock function. At the output of the system, we get seconds, minutes, hours and an output signaling activation of the alarm clock and bell. Setting the alarm clock time is done by pressing and holding the "set" button, then the value of the counters responsible for the time (sec, min, hour) is increased. When the button is released, the clock signal changes automatically from "clock" to "clockDigital". This is the signal obtained from the output of the frequency divider. In the project, for example, I used a divider by 16 (4 flip-flops), which is created by connecting the T flip-flops in series so that the output of one flip-flop connects to the clock input of the next. At the output of each flip-flop, the duration of the signal is twice as long as the input signal, so the frequency is twice as low. The design uses JK flip-flops with high states '1' set at the J and K inputs, thanks to which the flip-flop works like a T trigger. The signal at the output of the fourth trigger has a frequency 16 times lower than the input frequency. Therefore, when the user holds the button, time advances 16 times faster than when the button is no longer depressed. So the period of the "clock" signal does not have to be 1 [s] for the clock to work properly but is 62.5 [ms] (it is 16 times smaller). This period can be decreased / increased by adding / subtracting JK flip-flops depending on the period of the "clock" signal so that the output of the frequency divider receives a signal with the period of 1 [s]. The timer counts up with each rising edge of the clock signal. When the seconds counter reaches 59, it is reset and the minute counter increments by 1, then at 59 minutes the minutes counter is reset to zero and the hour counter is incremented by 1. This cycle of counting seconds is repeated up to 23 hours 59 minutes and 59 seconds, when with the next edge of the clock "clockDigital" all counters are reset - 24 hours have passed and the clock starts counting from the beginning. When the user presses and holds the "alarm" button, the value of the counter responsible for the time in which the alarm clock is to be activated is increased (minAlarm and hourAlarm counter). When the user stops pressing the "alarm" button, the alarm activation time will be automatically set. When the clock counter reaches the same value as the alarm counter (the same time) and the alarm ONOFF input is set to high, the alarm is activated - the bell output is set to high. The bell is active for two minutes, unless the user presses the ONOFFalarm button, which will automatically turn off the alarm. When the user presses the "reset" button, the set alarm activation time is reset.
